California Institute of Technology is a private institution that was founded in 1891. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 901 (fall 2020), its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 124 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. California Institute of Technology's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #9. Its tuition and fees are $58,680. Caltech, which focuses on science and engineering, is located in Pasadena, California, approximately 11 miles northeast of Los Angeles. Social and academic life at Caltech centers on 11 student residences and houses, which the school describes as "self-governing living groups." Student houses incorporate an admired Caltech tradition: dinners served by student waiters. Only freshmen are required to live on campus, but more than 80% of students remain in their house for all four years. The Caltech Beavers have a number of NCAA Division III teams that compete in the Southern California Intercollegiate Athletic Conference. Integral to student life is the Honor Code, which dictates that "No member of the Caltech community shall take unfair advantage of any other member of the Caltech community." In addition to its undergraduate studies, Caltech offers top graduate programs in engineering and areas of science including biology, chemistry, computer science, earth sciences, mathematics and physics. Caltech produces a significant amount of research, receiving grants from institutions such as NASA, the National Science Foundation and the Department of Health and Human Services, among others. Close to 90% of undergraduate students participate in research while earning their degree. Caltech maintains a strong tradition of pranking with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, another top-ranked science and technology university. Companies such as Intel, Compaq and Hotmail were founded by Caltech alumni. Famous film director Frank Capra also graduated from Caltech. California Institute of Technology is ranked #9 in National Universities. Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of California Institute of Technology.  California Institute of Technology admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 7%. Half the applicants admitted to California Institute of Technology have an
                SAT score between 1530 and 1580 or an ACT score of 35 and 36. The application deadline is Jan. 3 and the application
            fee at California Institute of Technology is $75. The student-faculty ratio at California Institute of Technology is 3:1, and the school  has 66.7% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at California Institute of Technology include: Computer and Information Sciences and Support Services; Engineering; Physical Sciences; Mathematics and Statistics; Biological and Biomedical Sciences; and Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 97%. California Institute of Technology has a total undergraduate enrollment of 901 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 54% male students
                 and 46% female students. At this school, 1% of the students live
             in college-owned, -operated or -affiliated housing and
             99% of students live off campus. In sports, California Institute of Technology is part of the NCAA III. 
              At California Institute of Technology, 51% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $49,806.