Columbia University is a private institution that was founded in 1754. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,170 (fall 2020), its setting is urban, and the campus size is 36 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Columbia University's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #2. Its tuition and fees are $63,530. Located in New York City, Columbia has three undergraduate schools - Columbia College, The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science and the School of General Studies - as well as a number of graduate and professional schools, including the highly ranked Business School, Teachers College, Law School and College of Physicians and Surgeons. The university also has a well-regarded College of Dental Medicine and graduate Journalism School. Columbia University's main campus is located in the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York City, situated in the Morningside Heights neighborhood. The Columbia University Medical Center - home to the medical, nursing, dental and public health faculties - is located in northern Manhattan in the Washington Heights neighborhood. Columbia offers a range of student activities, including 28 Greek chapters. More than 90% of students live on campus. Columbia is affiliated with Barnard College for women, the Union Theological Seminary and the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. Distinguished alumni include John Jay, founding father and first Supreme Court chief justice, and former President Barack Obama. Columbia also administers the Pulitzer Prizes. Columbia University is ranked #2 in National Universities. Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of Columbia University. Columbia University admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 6%. Half the applicants admitted to Columbia University have an
                SAT score between 1470 and 1570 or an ACT score of 33 and 35. The application deadline is Jan. 1 and the application
            fee at Columbia University is $85.  The student-faculty ratio at Columbia University is 6:1, and the school  has 82.5% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at Columbia University include: Social Sciences; Engineering; Computer and Information Sciences and Support Services; Biological and Biomedical Sciences; English Language and Literature/Letters; Mathematics and Statistics; History; Visual and Performing Arts; Foreign Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics; and Psychology. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 98%. Columbia University has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,170 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 49% male students
                 and 51% female students.  In sports, Columbia University is part of the NCAA I.
              At Columbia University, 50% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $57,274.
          