Duke University is a private institution that was founded in 1838. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,717 (fall 2020), and the setting is Suburban. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Duke University's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #9. Its tuition and fees are $60,489. Durham, North Carolina, which surrounds Duke's campus, offers a variety of activities including shopping, dining and entertainment. Its "Bull City" nickname comes from the Blackwell Tobacco Company's Bull Durham Tobacco. Students at Duke are required to live on campus for their first three years, and freshmen live together on the East Campus. The Duke Blue Devils maintain a fierce rivalry with the University of North Carolina—Chapel Hill Tar Heels and are best known for their outstanding men's basketball program, which is one of the top five most wins all-time college basketball programs in the country. Approximately 30 percent of the student body is affiliated with Greek life, which encompasses almost 40 fraternities and sororities. Duke University is divided into 10 schools and colleges, many of which serve both undergraduate and graduate students. Its graduate programs include the highly ranked Fuqua School of Business, Pratt School of Engineering, School of Law, School of Medicine, Sanford School of Public Policy and School of Nursing. Duke also offers graduate programs through its well-respected Divinity School and Nicholas School of the Environment. Duke's most esteemed undergraduate scholarship, the Robertson Scholars Leadership Program, is offered to students at both Duke University and the University of North Carolina—Chapel Hill. It provides about 18 students from each class with a four-year scholarship and the opportunity for unique academic and extracurricular opportunities at both universities. Notable alumni include Melinda Gates, co-founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; NBA player Carlos Boozer; and former U.S. Congressman and three-time presidential candidate Ron Paul. Duke University is ranked #9 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of Duke University.  Duke University admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 8%. Half the applicants admitted to Duke University have an
                SAT score between 1470 and 1570 or an ACT score of 34 and 35.  The application deadline is Jan. 3 and the application
            fee at Duke University is $85.  The student-faculty ratio at Duke University is 6:1, and the school  has 75.4% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at Duke University include: Computer Science; Public Policy Analysis, General; Econometrics and Quantitative Economics; Biology/Biological Sciences, General; Political Science and Government, General; Research and Experimental Psychology, Other; Computer Engineering, General; Mechanical Engineering; Bioengineering and Biomedical Engineering; and Neuroscience. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 97%. Duke University has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,717 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 49% male students
                 and 51% female students.  In sports, Duke University is part of the NCAA I.
             At Duke University, 42% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $53,409.
            