Harvard University is a private institution that was founded in 1636. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 5,222 (fall 2020), its setting is urban, and the campus size is 5,076 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Harvard University's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #2. Its tuition and fees are $55,587. Located outside Boston in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Harvard University is made up of 13 schools and institutes, including the top-ranked Business School and Medical School and the highly ranked Graduate Education School, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Law School and John F. Kennedy School of Government. Harvard is a private, nonprofit institution that was  founded in 1636 colonial America by the General Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The school was initially created to educate members of the clergy, according to the university’s archives. Harvard is named after a Puritan minister – John Harvard – who, in 1638, left his 400-book library and half of his estate to the young school. The first commencement ceremony at Harvard, held in 1642, had nine graduates. Harvard's extensive library system houses the oldest collection in the U.S. and the largest private collection in the world. Beyond books, Harvard's athletic teams compete in the Ivy League, with an annual football match-up against rival Yale. On-campus residential housing is an integral part of student life, where freshmen live at the center of campus and upperclassmen live in 12 undergraduate houses. Eight U.S. presidents graduated from Harvard, including Franklin Delano Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy. Other notable alumni include Henry David Thoreau and Helen Keller. Harvard also has the largest endowment of any school in the world. Harvard University is ranked #2 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of Harvard University.  Harvard University admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 5%
            and an early acceptance rate of 13.9%. Half the applicants admitted to Harvard University have an
                SAT score between 1460 and 1580 or an ACT score of 33 and 35.  The application deadline is Jan. 1 and the application
            fee at Harvard University is $75.  The student-faculty ratio at Harvard University is 5:1, and the school  has 76.3% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at Harvard University include: Social Sciences, General; Biology/Biological Sciences, General; Mathematics, General; Computer and Information Sciences, General; History, General; Physical Sciences, General; Engineering, General; Psychology, General; English Language and Literature, General; and Visual and Performing Arts, General. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 92%. Harvard University has a total undergraduate enrollment of 5,222 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 49% male students
                 and 51% female students.  In sports, Harvard University is part of the NCAA I.
             At Harvard University, 62% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $55,868.
            