Massachusetts Institute of Technology is a private institution that was founded in 1861. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,361 (fall 2020), its setting is urban, and the campus size is 168 acres. It utilizes a 4-1-4-based academic calendar. Massachusetts Institute of Technology's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #2. Its tuition and fees are $55,878. Located outside Boston in Cambridge, Massachusetts, MIT focuses on scientific and technological research and is divided into five schools. University research expenditures have exceeded $700 million a year, with funding from government agencies such as the Department of Health and Human Services and Department of Defense. MIT’s highly ranked graduate schools include the School of Engineering and Sloan School of Management, in addition to strong programs in economics, psychology, biology, chemistry, earth sciences, physics and mathematics. Freshmen are required to live on campus, and about 70% of all undergraduates live on campus. Architect Steven Holl designed one dorm, commonly called "The Sponge." The Independent Activities Program, a four-week term in January, offers special courses, lectures, competitions and projects. Distinguished alumni include Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin, former U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan and former Federal Reserve Bank Chairman Ben Bernanke. Massachusetts Institute of Technology is ranked #2 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  Massachusetts Institute of Technology admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 7%
            and an early acceptance rate of 7.4%. Half the applicants admitted to Massachusetts Institute of Technology have an
                SAT score between 1510 and 1580 or an ACT score of 34 and 36.  The application deadline is Jan. 1 and the application
            fee at Massachusetts Institute of Technology is $75.  The student-faculty ratio at Massachusetts Institute of Technology is 3:1, and the school  has 70.1% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at Massachusetts Institute of Technology include: Computer Science; Mechanical Engineering; Mathematics, General; Physics, General; Aerospace, Aeronautical, and Astronautical/Space Engineering, General; Bioengineering and Biomedical Engineering; Econometrics and Quantitative Economics; Electrical and Electronics Engineering; Biology/Biological Sciences, General; and Chemical Engineering. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 99%. Massachusetts Institute of Technology has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,361 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 52% male students
                 and 48% female students. At this school, 20% of the students live
             in college-owned, -operated or -affiliated housing and
             80% of students live off campus. In sports, Massachusetts Institute of Technology is part of the NCAA III.
             At Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 60% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $49,315.
            