Princeton University is a private institution that was founded in 1746. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,773 (fall 2020), its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 600 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Princeton University's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #1. Its tuition and fees are $56,010. Princeton, among the oldest colleges in the U.S., is located in the quiet town of Princeton, New Jersey. Within the walls of its historic ivy-covered campus, Princeton offers a number of events, activities and organizations. The Princeton Tigers, members of the Ivy League, are well known for their consistently strong men's and women's lacrosse teams. Students live in one of six residential colleges that provide a residential community as well as dining services but have the option to join one of more than 10 eating clubs for their junior and senior years. The eating clubs serve as social and dining organizations for the students who join them. Princeton's unofficial motto, "Princeton in the Nation's Service and the Service of Humanity," speaks to the university's commitment to community service. Princeton includes highly ranked graduate programs through the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and School of Engineering and Applied Science. One unique aspect of Princeton's academic program is that undergraduate students are required to write a senior thesis, or for students in some engineering departments, take on an independent project. Notable alumni include U.S. President Woodrow Wilson, model/actress Brooke Shields and former first lady Michelle Obama. According to Princeton legend, if a student exits campus through FitzRandolph Gate prior to graduation, he or she may be cursed never to graduate. Princeton University is ranked #1 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of Princeton University.  Princeton University admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 6%
            and an early acceptance rate of 14.7%. Half the applicants admitted to Princeton University have an
                SAT score between 1450 and 1570 or an ACT score of 32 and 35.  The application deadline is Jan. 1 and the application
            fee at Princeton University is $70.  The student-faculty ratio at Princeton University is 4:1, and the school  has 77.6% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at Princeton University include: Social Sciences; Engineering; Computer and Information Sciences and Support Services; Biological and Biomedical Sciences; Public Administration and Social Service Professions; Physical Sciences; History; Foreign Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics; English Language and Literature/Letters; and Philosophy and Religious Studies. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 94%. Princeton University has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,773 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 50% male students
                 and 50% female students.  In sports, Princeton University is part of the NCAA I.
             At Princeton University, 62% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $52,438.
            