Stanford University is a private institution that was founded in 1885. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,366 (fall 2020), its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 8,180 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. Stanford University's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #6. Its tuition and fees are $56,169. Stanford University’s pristine campus is located in California’s Bay Area, about 30 miles from San Francisco. Stanford offers a wide range of student organizations, including the Stanford Pre-Business Association and Stanford Solar Car Project, which designs, builds and races a solar car every two years. The Stanford Cardinal are well known for the traditional "Big Game" against Cal, an annual football competition that awards the Stanford Axe — a sought-after trophy — to the victor. Stanford also has successful programs in tennis and golf. Only freshmen are required to live on campus, but students are guaranteed housing for all four years, and most choose to remain on campus. Greek life at Stanford represents approximately 25 percent of the student body. Four of Stanford University’s seven schools offer undergraduate and graduate coursework, and the remaining three serve as purely graduate schools. Graduate programs include the highly ranked School of Education, School of Engineering, School of Law, School of Medicine and Graduate School of Business. The Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment oversees collaboration between environmental research, teaching and outreach. Stanford has a number of well-known theatrical and musical groups, including the Ram’s Head Theatrical Society and the Mendicants, an all-male a cappella group. Notable Stanford alumni include former U.S. President Herbert Hoover, Hall of Fame NFL quarterback John Elway, actress Sigourney Weaver and golfer Tiger Woods, who played collegiately at Stanford. Stanford University is ranked #6 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of Stanford University.  Stanford University admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 5%. Half the applicants admitted to Stanford University have an
                SAT score between 1420 and 1570 or an ACT score of 31 and 35.  The application deadline is Jan. 2 and the application
            fee at Stanford University is $90.  The student-faculty ratio at Stanford University is 5:1, and the school  has 68.6% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at Stanford University include: Computer and Information Sciences and Support Services; Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies; and Engineering. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 96%. Stanford University has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,366 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 49% male students
                 and 51% female students. At this school, 11% of the students live
             in college-owned, -operated or -affiliated housing and
             89% of students live off campus. In sports, Stanford University is part of the NCAA I.
             At Stanford University, 53% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $53,000.
            