University of Pennsylvania is a private institution that was founded in 1740. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 9,872 (fall 2020), its setting is urban, and the campus size is 299 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Pennsylvania's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #8. Its tuition and fees are $61,710. The University of Pennsylvania, located in Philadelphia, was founded by Benjamin Franklin. The Penn Quakers have more than 25 NCAA Division I sports that compete in the Ivy League, and are noted for successful basketball and lacrosse teams. Penn offers housing in more than 10 College Houses, but many students live in the numerous off-campus apartments and houses available. More than 25 percent of the student body is involved in Greek life, which encompasses nearly 50 fraternities and sororities. The school also offers a number of clubs and organizations, ranging from performance groups like the Latin & Ballroom Dance club to student publications such as the Penn Political Review. Penn works closely with the West Philadelphia area through community service and advocacy groups. Penn has 12 schools: Five offer undergraduate and graduate studies, and seven offer only graduate studies. Penn's highly ranked graduate programs include its Wharton School, School of Education, School of Engineering and Applied Science, Law School and School of Medicine. Penn's other notable graduate programs include its School of Design and School of Dental Medicine. Penn, though secular, has a strong religious life with its Hillel for Jewish students, Penn Newman Catholic Center and InterVarsity Christian Fellowship. More than 2,500 students each year participate in international study programs offered in more than 50 countries around the world. Notable Penn alumni include singer John Legend, poet William Carlos Williams and President Donald Trump. University of Pennsylvania is ranked #8 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of University of Pennsylvania.  University of Pennsylvania admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 9%. Half the applicants admitted to University of Pennsylvania have an
                SAT score between 1460 and 1570 or an ACT score of 33 and 35.  The application deadline is Jan. 5 and the application
            fee at University of Pennsylvania is $75.  The student-faculty ratio at University of Pennsylvania is 6:1, and the school  has 69.6% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at University of Pennsylvania include: Business, Management, Marketing, and Related Support Services; Social Sciences; Biological and Biomedical Sciences; Engineering; Computer and Information Sciences and Support Services; Philosophy and Religious Studies; Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies; Mathematics and Statistics; and Physical Sciences. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 97%. University of Pennsylvania has a total undergraduate enrollment of 9,872 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 46% male students
                 and 54% female students.  In sports, University of Pennsylvania is part of the NCAA I.
             At University of Pennsylvania, 45% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $54,253.
            