University of Chicago is a private institution that was founded in 1890. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,989 (fall 2020), its setting is urban, and the campus size is 217 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Chicago's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #6. Its tuition and fees are $60,963. The University of Chicago, situated in Hyde Park, offers a rich campus life in a big-city setting. In addition to the college, the university has postgraduate offerings that include the highly ranked Booth School of Business, Law School, Pritzker School of Medicine and Harris School of Public Policy Studies. The Chicago Maroons have 18 NCAA Division III teams, which compete in the University Athletic Association, and have strong basketball and wrestling programs. Freshmen are required to live on campus, and more than 50% of upperclassmen choose to remain on campus. On-campus students are placed in "houses" within their dorm, which serve as tight-knit communities and provide academic and social support. The university offers more than 450 student organizations. Students can choose from more than 50 majors and 40 minors – such as history or environmental studies – and have visited Greece, China and France during study abroad experiences. The university has 91 Nobel Prize winners in its ranks. The University of Chicago is known for its location as well as its rigorous academic and enrichment programs. Former President Barack Obama taught at the University of Chicago Law School for 12 years. Chartered in 1890, the University of Chicago is a private research institution. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of approximately 6800 students, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 217 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Chicago's ranking in the 2020 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #6. Its tuition and fees are $59,298 (2019-20).The University of Chicago, situated in Hyde Park, offers a rich campus life in a big city setting. In addition to the college, the university has postgraduate offerings that include the highly ranked Booth School of Business, Law School, Pritzker School of Medicine, Harris School of Public Policy Studies, the School of Social Service Administration, and the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering. The residential housing system is a vital element of the college community where all first- and second-year students live, as well as many upperclassmen. On-campus students are placed in "houses" within their dorm, which serve as tight-knit communities and provide academic and social support.The University of Chicago is universally recognized for its devotion to open and rigorous inquiry, the strength of our intellectual traditions, intense critical analysis, and free and lively debate. Our engaged scholars continually seek creative solutions to complex problems. Our College graduates have made discoveries in every field of academic study. The University of Chicago is affiliated with 92 Nobel Prize winners, over 275 Guggenheim fellows, 52 MacArthur "Genius" Grant winners, and 25 Pulitzer Prize winners. UChicago is also renowned for the unparalleled resources it provides its undergraduate students. Our 217-acre campus contains six libraries; over 160 research centers and institutes, including our new Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering and the Institute of Politics; as well as world-class theaters, museums, and art centers. Additionally, the University of Chicago is a global leader in scientific advancement and plays a pivotal role as a central hub for innovation in quantum science and engineering. Rooted in Hyde Park, a neighborhood home to both our campus (certified as a botanical garden) and nearly 60% of the private homes of our faculty, UChicago offers a true campus-based community within the context of a major American city. Our students engage the city of Chicago and its many neighborhoods through groundbreaking research and scholarship, unparalleled internship opportunities, and a commitment to community service. Just as Chicago is a global city, the University of Chicago remains a truly international university: we offer nearly 60 faculty-led study abroad programs, many in conjunction with our centers in Beijing, Hong Kong, Delhi, and Paris. UChicago maintains a student-faculty ratio of 5:1, ensuring that every classroom experience exemplifies our commitment to close interactions between students and faculty in small, discussion-style seminars. Focused on careful reading, analytical writing, and critical thinking, UChicago’s famous Core Curriculum is the perfect foundation for any major and all future endeavors. Through Core courses across the academic disciplines, students investigate the human experience and the natural world. With over 50 majors and more than 45 minors, students can double-major, create their own major, or explore interdisciplinary opportunities. Additionally, the Office of Career Advancement helps students translate what they are studying in our classrooms to their future careers. Students also enjoy over 400 student organizations, including Division III sports; a small but active Greek life; over 35 student theatrical productions a year; a rich music scene; and robust opportunities in politics, music, theater, commerce, and neighborhood life in the city of Chicago.  Chartered in 1890, the University of Chicago is a private research institution. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of approximately 6800 students, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 217 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Chicago's ranking in the 2020 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #6. Its tuition and fees are $59,298 (2019-20).The University of Chicago, situated in Hyde Park, offers a rich campus life in a big city setting. In addition to the college, the university has postgraduate offerings that include the highly ranked Booth School of Business, Law School, Pritzker School of Medicine, Harris School of Public Policy Studies, the School of Social Service Administration, and the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering. The residential housing system is a vital element of the college community where all first- and second-year students live, as well as many upperclassmen. On-campus students are placed in "houses" within their dorm, which serve as tight-knit communities and provide academic and social support.The University of Chicago is universally recognized for its devotion to open and rigorous inquiry, the strength of our intellectual traditions, intense critical analysis, and free and lively debate. Our engaged scholars continually seek creative solutions to complex problems. Our College graduates have made discoveries in every field of academic study. The University of Chicago is affiliated with 92 Nobel Prize winners, over 275 Guggenheim fellows, 52 MacArthur "Genius" Grant winners, and 25 Pulitzer Prize winners. UChicago is also renowned for the unparalleled resources it provides its undergraduate students. Our 217-acre campus contains six libraries; over 160 research centers and institutes, including our new Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering and the Institute of Politics; as well as world-class theaters, museums, and art centers. Additionally, the University of Chicago is a global leader in scientific advancement and plays a pivotal role as a central hub for innovation in quantum science and engineering. Rooted in Hyde Park, a neighborhood home to both our campus (certified as a botanical garden) and nearly 60% of the private homes of our faculty, UChicago offers a true campus-based community within the context of a major American city. Our students engage the city of Chicago and its many neighborhoods through groundbreaking research and scholarship, unparalleled internship opportunities, and a commitment to community service. Just as Chicago is a global city, the University of Chicago remains a truly international university: we offer nearly 60 faculty-led study abroad programs, many in conjunction with our centers in Beijing, Hong Kong, Delhi, and Paris. UChicago maintains a student-faculty ratio of 5:1, ensuring that every classroom experience exemplifies our commitment to close interactions between students and faculty in small, discussion-style seminars. Focused on careful reading, analytical writing, and critical thinking, UChicago’s famous Core Curriculum is the perfect foundation for any major and all future endeavors. Through Core courses across the academic disciplines, students investigate the human experience and the natural world. With over 50 majors and more than 45 minors, students can double-major, create their own major, or explore interdisciplinary opportunities. Additionally, the Office of Career Advancement helps students translate what they are studying in our classrooms to their future careers. Students also enjoy over 400 student organizations, including Division III sports; a small but active Greek life; over 35 student theatrical productions a year; a rich music scene; and robust opportunities in politics, music, theater, commerce, and neighborhood life in the city of Chicago.  Chartered in 1890, the University of Chicago is a private research institution. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of approximately 6800 students, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 217 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Chicago's ranking in the 2020 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #6. Its tuition and fees are $59,298 (2019-20).The University of Chicago, situated in Hyde Park, offers a rich campus life in a big city setting. In addition to the college, the university has postgraduate offerings that include the highly ranked Booth School of Business, Law School, Pritzker School of Medicine, Harris School of Public Policy Studies, the School of Social Service Administration, and the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering. The residential housing system is a vital element of the college community where all first- and second-year students live, as well as many upperclassmen. On-campus students are placed in "houses" within their dorm, which serve as tight-knit communities and provide academic and social support.The University of Chicago is universally recognized for its devotion to open and rigorous inquiry, the strength of our intellectual traditions, intense critical analysis, and free and lively debate. Our engaged scholars continually seek creative solutions to complex problems. Our College graduates have made discoveries in every field of academic study. The University of Chicago is affiliated with 92 Nobel Prize winners, over 275 Guggenheim fellows, 52 MacArthur "Genius" Grant winners, and 25 Pulitzer Prize winners. UChicago is also renowned for the unparalleled resources it provides its undergraduate students. Our 217-acre campus contains six libraries; over 160 research centers and institutes, including our new Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering and the Institute of Politics; as well as world-class theaters, museums, and art centers. Additionally, the University of Chicago is a global leader in scientific advancement and plays a pivotal role as a central hub for innovation in quantum science and engineering. Rooted in Hyde Park, a neighborhood home to both our campus (certified as a botanical garden) and nearly 60% of the private homes of our faculty, UChicago offers a true campus-based community within the context of a major American city. Our students engage the city of Chicago and its many neighborhoods through groundbreaking research and scholarship, unparalleled internship opportunities, and a commitment to community service. Just as Chicago is a global city, the University of Chicago remains a truly international university: we offer nearly 60 faculty-led study abroad programs, many in conjunction with our centers in Beijing, Hong Kong, Delhi, and Paris. UChicago maintains a student-faculty ratio of 5:1, ensuring that every classroom experience exemplifies our commitment to close interactions between students and faculty in small, discussion-style seminars. Focused on careful reading, analytical writing, and critical thinking, UChicago’s famous Core Curriculum is the perfect foundation for any major and all future endeavors. Through Core courses across the academic disciplines, students investigate the human experience and the natural world. With over 50 majors and more than 45 minors, students can double-major, create their own major, or explore interdisciplinary opportunities. Additionally, the Office of Career Advancement helps students translate what they are studying in our classrooms to their future careers. Students also enjoy over 400 student organizations, including Division III sports; a small but active Greek life; over 35 student theatrical productions a year; a rich music scene; and robust opportunities in politics, music, theater, commerce, and neighborhood life in the city of Chicago.  Chartered in 1890, the University of Chicago is a private research institution. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of approximately 6800 students, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 217 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Chicago's ranking in the 2020 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #6. Its tuition and fees are $59,298 (2019-20).The University of Chicago, situated in Hyde Park, offers a rich campus life in a big city setting. In addition to the college, the university has postgraduate offerings that include the highly ranked Booth School of Business, Law School, Pritzker School of Medicine, Harris School of Public Policy Studies, the School of Social Service Administration, and the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering. The residential housing system is a vital element of the college community where all first- and second-year students live, as well as many upperclassmen. On-campus students are placed in "houses" within their dorm, which serve as tight-knit communities and provide academic and social support.The University of Chicago is universally recognized for its devotion to open and rigorous inquiry, the strength of our intellectual traditions, intense critical analysis, and free and lively debate. Our engaged scholars continually seek creative solutions to complex problems. Our College graduates have made discoveries in every field of academic study. The University of Chicago is affiliated with 92 Nobel Prize winners, over 275 Guggenheim fellows, 52 MacArthur "Genius" Grant winners, and 25 Pulitzer Prize winners. UChicago is also renowned for the unparalleled resources it provides its undergraduate students. Our 217-acre campus contains six libraries; over 160 research centers and institutes, including our new Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering and the Institute of Politics; as well as world-class theaters, museums, and art centers. Additionally, the University of Chicago is a global leader in scientific advancement and plays a pivotal role as a central hub for innovation in quantum science and engineering. Rooted in Hyde Park, a neighborhood home to both our campus (certified as a botanical garden) and nearly 60% of the private homes of our faculty, UChicago offers a true campus-based community within the context of a major American city. Our students engage the city of Chicago and its many neighborhoods through groundbreaking research and scholarship, unparalleled internship opportunities, and a commitment to community service. Just as Chicago is a global city, the University of Chicago remains a truly international university: we offer nearly 60 faculty-led study abroad programs, many in conjunction with our centers in Beijing, Hong Kong, Delhi, and Paris. UChicago maintains a student-faculty ratio of 5:1, ensuring that every classroom experience exemplifies our commitment to close interactions between students and faculty in small, discussion-style seminars. Focused on careful reading, analytical writing, and critical thinking, UChicago’s famous Core Curriculum is the perfect foundation for any major and all future endeavors. Through Core courses across the academic disciplines, students investigate the human experience and the natural world. With over 50 majors and more than 45 minors, students can double-major, create their own major, or explore interdisciplinary opportunities. Additionally, the Office of Career Advancement helps students translate what they are studying in our classrooms to their future careers. Students also enjoy over 400 student organizations, including Division III sports; a small but active Greek life; over 35 student theatrical productions a year; a rich music scene; and robust opportunities in politics, music, theater, commerce, and neighborhood life in the city of Chicago.  University of Chicago is ranked #6 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of University of Chicago.  University of Chicago admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 7%. Half the applicants admitted to University of Chicago have an
                SAT score between 1500 and 1570 or an ACT score of 34 and 35.  The application deadline is Nov. 1 and the application
            fee at University of Chicago is $75.  The student-faculty ratio at University of Chicago is 5:1, and the school  has 78.9% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at University of Chicago include: Econometrics and Quantitative Economics; Mathematics, General; Biology/Biological Sciences, General; Public Policy Analysis, General; Political Science and Government, General; Computer Science; Experimental Psychology; Statistics, General; Philosophy; and Physics, General. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 99%. University of Chicago has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,989 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 52% male students
                 and 48% female students.  In sports, University of Chicago is part of the NCAA III.
             At University of Chicago, 39% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $54,183.
            