Yale University is a private institution that was founded in 1701. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,703 (fall 2020), its setting is city, and the campus size is 373 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Yale University's ranking in the 2022 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, #5. Its tuition and fees are $59,950. Yale University, located in New Haven, Connecticut, is known for its excellent drama and music programs, which reach outside the classroom with student organizations such as the Yale Whiffenpoofs, a famous a cappella group, and the Yale Dramatic Association. The Yale Bulldogs compete in the Ivy League and are well known for their rivalry with Harvard. Students are assigned to live in one of 14 residential colleges during their time at Yale. Each college has a head and dean who live in the college and eat with students in the dining halls. Cultural centers provide a space for students to build a sense of cultural identity on campus. Yale is made up of the College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and 12 professional schools. Included in the professional schools are the top-ranked Law School and highly ranked School of Management, School of Medicine , School of Art and School of Nursing. The School of Drama, School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, and Divinity School also have well-regarded graduate programs. The Yale Record is the oldest college humor magazine in the nation. Dwight Hall is an independent umbrella organization that fosters student service and activism in the New Haven community and beyond. Yale is well known for its secret societies, the most famous of which are the Skull and Bones Society, which boasts members such as George W. Bush and John Kerry, and the Scroll and Key Society. Distinguished Yale alumni include award-winning actress Meryl Streep, Washington Post investigative journalist and editor Bob Woodward, and actor Edward Norton. Yale University is ranked #5 in National Universities.  Below are the median starting salaries by major for alumni of Yale University.  Yale University admissions is most selective with an acceptance rate of 7%. Half the applicants admitted to Yale University have an
                SAT score between 1460 and 1580 or an ACT score of 33 and 35.  The application deadline is Jan. 2 and the application
            fee at Yale University is $80.  The student-faculty ratio at Yale University is 4:1, and the school  has 76.9% of its classes with fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors at Yale University include: Social Sciences; Biological and Biomedical Sciences; Mathematics and Statistics; Computer and Information Sciences and Support Services; History; Area, Ethnic, Cultural, Gender, and Group Studies; Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies; Engineering; Psychology; and Visual and Performing Arts. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 91%. Yale University has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,703 (fall 2020),
                 with a gender distribution of 50% male students
                 and 50% female students. At this school, 58% of the students live
             in college-owned, -operated or -affiliated housing and
             42% of students live off campus. In sports, Yale University is part of the NCAA I.
             At Yale University, 57% of full-time undergraduates
             receive some kind of need-based financial aid, and the
             average need-based scholarship or grant award is $60,494.
            